Hello and welcome back to the course and Tableau in a desert burial.
We're going to look at some new mobile features of Tableau what we actually can do is look at all of
this in practice.
So let's bring up our dashboard that we've been creating.
So there are some realisations right.
So let's say we want to create a dashboard.
Let's put some of these visualizations into a dashboard while one of the ones that we had was powerful
is of course our cluster analysis of some trend lines.
And also let's add that map that we created over here.
So let's say we have this dashboard and now we want to see what it would look like or optimize it for
different mobile devices.
How would we do it.
Well over here in the top left corner now you have a button device preview and you can just click that
and you can select from a desktop tablet phone so let's keep an eye on tablet for an hour and you can
actually select the specific different tablets that you or your managers or people in your company might
be using.
So for instance you can say generic tablet or iPad.
That's what it will look like on an iPad iPad mini.
Okay.
Same thing.
So Amazon Kindle Fire got more space.
Google Nexus 7 case it's more stretched out.
So it's giving you this box which you can adjust your dashboard to see you can recreate a dashboard
in a way that it will actually fit into this type of layout.
So there you can see though it's kind of like just showing you what it would look like.
You can also flip your flip the device what it would look like and also you can see if you have the
mobile app or not.
So let's say i pad less a and then we'll flip it and let's say unless there's some some galaxy tab and
then you either have the mobile app or not.
It's also different then you can change it to phone and you can like let's say iPhone 6 6 apps.
You can also adjust that if you like.
So it's a very very powerful feature.
And now if you also go into the size over here and sort of fixed size you can select automatic and then
it will fit your dashboard into the device so let's say for instance you don't need any of these because
they're not informative then and this is what it look like on an iPhone 6 as if you select automatic.
And then let's see if you go back to tablets.
This is all a look I got a Samsung Galaxy Tab or HTC nexus so you can see that if you leave an automatic
then and adjust to the to the layout and that is also a powerful feature just to kind of show you what
that would look like.
But at the same time you can always modify your dashboard and make it look fantastic on the device that
you're targeting.
Or make it so versatile that regardless of the device.
So for instance if you don't select automatic you say it's a fixed size or for instance you could even
do range right.
So you could do range and you could set some different sizes were in between which the dashboard would
adjust.
But that's kind of like more of an advance feature.
So to start off with you would probably play around with the fixed size select a look and feel for a
dashboard such that it would look good on different types of devices that potentially can be used in
your organization.
So that would definitely be helpful in terms of just understanding what exactly to expect from the different
devices because a lot of the time you might know that some devices use but you don't have it handy you
don't have it right in front of you to test these things out and this feature this new feature actually
allows you to very quickly assess what exactly is going to happen if your dashboard is open on this
device or on another device.
So hopefully you'll find this feature useful and I'll look forward to you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.